- [Instructor] We have run a basic container
and we've figured out how can we run it
in an interactive way,
how can we run it in a detached way,
how can we stop it, remove it.
But so far, running the container
has been no good to us,
because we have not been able to access it yet.
Well for that, you need to be able to expose ports.
And attach volumes to it
so that it can deploy .war files to it.
So let's take a look at that next.
Now, I'm in my terminal here,
and I'm going to try to start the WildFly container once again.
So, we're going to say, docker container.
I'm going to run it in a detached mode.
And I'll give it a name web.
And now, I want to publish the ports.
I say -P.
"What do you mean by publish the ports?"
Well, WildFly we know by default runs on 8080.
So in the WildFly image,
there's an instruction called expose.
We'll take a look at that
when we go into building images.
But essentially, WildFly is saying
I'm available at port 8080 if you want to talk to me.
By saying -P you pick a random port
in a certain range and expose me,
basically make myself available.
And then, we type the image name
and let's run the container here.
Okay, so since the image is already downloaded
the container starts up rather rapidly.
So now I can say docker container ls.
And there you go, the container has started.
Everything else in this output
looks pretty similar that we saw earlier.
The key part that you want to focus on is right here.
And it says, take all the network interfaces on the host,
which is indicated by 0.0.0,
port 32768 over there and redirect it
to port 8080 in the container.
So what that means is
now if I go to my browser
and I try to access localhost:32768,
it will be accessible to me, OK?
Let's take a look.
So, let's go to Chrome for that.
So now we are in Chrome, and we're going to say
localhost:32768.
And there you go.
If you're using Docker machine,
then the localhost access may not work for you.
This was mentioned earlier in
the Docker toolbox install video as well.
You need to make sure that you're using
the IP address of the Docker machine.
That can be easily found
using the Docker machine CLI.
So you can say Docker machine space IP
and give the machine name,
and it's going to give you that IP address.
Now instead of saying localhost colon port number,
you'll give that IP address, port,
then your container will be accessible.
So, just by adding that -P,
it picked up a default port for us,
and our WildFly is now accessible.
Now, think about the power of this.
There was no need to download WildFly,
there was no need to download JDK,
there was no need to configure any of that,
we just ran that simple Docker container
and boom, you got your WildFly up and running
with that just one simple Docker run command.
Let's see what other things we can do.
Now I'm back in my terminal.
I want to see the logs for it.
The container is running.
So, I'm going to say docker container logs.
That's again a subcommand of container.
And I give it a container name.
And it shows me all the WildFly logs,
if any applications are deployed,
if anything goes wrong here,
all of that information is going to be available
in the logs for me.
Now let's try to stop the container here again.
So we stop the container,
and once again, as we did earlier,
let's remove the container.
So the container is now gone.
Now, instead of choosing a default port,
let me assign it a specific port.
So, what I'm going to do is
I'm going to run the same command.
Instead of capital P,
which says take all exposed ports
and publish them in a predefined range,
I'm going to use a lowercase p.
And I will say take port 8080 on the host
and map it to port 8080 on the container.
Not a lot of change, but a difference
that is a lot more palatable to the user.
So now, once again,
let's take a look at container logs.
The logs are available to me.
Nothing changes in the log.
But what changes for us is really
the port number on which WildFly is accessible.
So let's go to a browser and take a look at that.
So, all I need to do is
go here and change the port to 8080.
And WildFly is now easily available to me on port 8080.
So that's pretty cool.
I can change the port,
I can define the port,
I can access the log and all that stuff.
Now let's take a look at
how can I deploy a .war file to this application.
Let's go back to our terminal for that.
So, this time I'm going to brute force remove the container.
So, I'm going to say docker container rm -f web.
So, there goes my container, OK?
Now, if I look at this directory,
and how to use the exercise files,
which were shown in the beginning of the lesson itself,
you will have seen how to download
the Github repository and the exercise files.
So now I'm into the chapter 2 of the exercise files here.
And if I look at the directory content here,
I have a .war file here, OK?
This .war file is a simple Java EE application
which basically says,
okay, a Java EE application is now deployed
in WildFly and it has a simple rest endpoint.
Let me show you how can I deploy
this .war file to the WildFly container.
Before we do that, let's take a look at it.
We have no containers running.
The list of containers that you see
in your console might be slightly different,
and that is because the containers
might have been deleted between the exercises.
Well, if you want to clean up the containers
in your environment, those can be easily done
by using the command docker container -rm
and individually listing all
the container IDs or their names.
To be double sure, let's check all the containers.
So there are indeed no containers running.
So what we're going to do is,
we're going to use one of our previous commands here.
Everything else stays pretty much the same.
All I'm going to do is, I'm going to add a volume mapping.
What that means is,
I can take a directory on my local machine,
and my laptop in this case,
and mount it as a point in my container.
And let's see how we're going to use that
effectively to deploy the .war file.
So I'm going to say -v, which is
how I'm going to do the volume mapping.
I'm going to take my current directory,
pick up webapp.war from there,
and mount it to the WildFly container
has a particular directory in which
the .war files need to be deployed.
So I'm going to specify that directory location here.
In the WildFly container's case,
it's /opt/jboss/wildfly/standalone/deployments/
and I'm going to give it the filename as well.
So, that's it.
So if we read the command here again,
docker container run, running in a detached mode,
giving it the name web, exposing on port 8080,
doing the volume mapping,
taking the webapp.war file, deploying it to
/opt/jboss/wildfly/standalone/deployments/ .war file,
and then the container name.
Let's run it, and let's see
if we can see the logs of the container.
So, I say docker container logs web.
Now, we can also tail the logs,
so I can say -f and it'll show me all the logs here.
Now the beauty is you can see that your webapp.war file
is successfully deployed over here.
That's are the key thing that you're looking for.
Essentially everything else is
pretty standard for WildFly container log.
Now, once I've done that, I can say curl,
I can say http colon localhost 8080.
Now, this is a Java EE application,
so I'm going to say webapp, it has a rest endpoint,
so resources, and then the resource name,
which in my case is persons.
The moment I do that, I get an XML results.
Or, for convenience,
I can take this URL and show it in the browser as well.
So let's take a look at that.
Copy the URL, and drop it into the browser here.
And here we go, I have the complete set
of results available to me.
So basically, in this section you saw
how can we run WildFly on default ports,
on specific ports, and use volume mapping
effectively to deploy my .war file in WildFly.